APM UI 9.5: Transactions UI updates (#7523)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/observability/apm/transactions-ui.md

By default, transaction groups are sorted by *Impact*. Impact helps show the most used and slowest endpoints in your service - in other words, it’s the collective amount of pain a specific endpoint is causing your users. If there’s a particular endpoint you’re worried about, you can click on it to view the [transaction details](/solutions/observability/apm/transactions-ui.md#transaction-details).

> {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5+` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` Each row in the Transactions table has an **Actions** menu. Use it to act on a specific transaction group. For example, you can create an alert rule, create an SLO, or select **Open traces in Discover** to explore the underlying trace data.

Reviewer: I think this is actually 9.4+ per this implementation PR: https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/252391

Author: I saw it on edge and presumed 9.5. Nice catch, thanks

* FaaS information, like cold start, AWS request ID, trigger type, and trigger request ID

::::{tip}

> All of this data is stored in documents in {{es}}. Select **Actions** → **View transaction in Discover** to see the raw {{es}} document for this trace sample.

Reviewer: This is wrong. When viewing Trace sample metadata there is no actions menu. The button is "Open full trace in Discover"

<img width="1126" height="654" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3e6f89f1-37e3-4f55-ac73-b11d6b2aba54" />

Author: Ahh I missed that this changed as well. Thanks for catching that!

* FaaS information, like cold start, AWS request ID, trigger type, and trigger request ID

::::{tip}
{applies_to}`stack: ga 9.5+` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` All of this data is stored in documents in {{es}}. Click **Open full trace in Discover** to explore the trace data in Discover.

> {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.0-9.4` All of this data is stored in documents in {{es}}. Select **Actions** → **View transaction in Discover** to see the raw {{es}} document for this trace sample.

Reviewer 2: You can avoid applies_to in general for options that moved or were renamed if the difference is small, for example by doing:

```suggestion
All of this data is stored in documents in {{es}}. Depending on your version, click **Open full trace in Discover** or **Actions** → **View transaction in Discover** to see the raw {{es}} document for this trace sample.
```
